=====================================================
==  Privatar - a privacy enhancing Gravatar proxy  ==
=====================================================


INTRODUCTION TO GRAVATAR

Gravatar.com is a service where people can associate an image with their email
address. Other websites can then display this image by using an md5_hex of the
email address to request it. This allows for easy opt-in display of images on
blogs, forums, Q&A sites, etc, etc.

The use of the MD5 hash prevents sites from having to reveal the email address.
It also allows the service to be used with no sign up or prior configuration. It
is simple, efficient and effective.

PRIVACY ISSUES

However there are some privacy issues.

Although the email address is not revealed it can be checked. If you suspect a
gravatar to belong to someone you can check the MD5 of their email address
against the hash in the gravatar url to confirm if it is them. It is also
possible to use the MD5 hash to link accounts on disparate sites as it will be
the same.

If you choose to host an image with Gravatar you implicitly sacrifice a bit of
privacy as the image can be used to do the comparisons. The problem is that the
gravatar url is generated regardless of having a Gravatar account so there is no
way to opt out. A site can choose to start using Gravatars at any time.

PRIVATAR AIMS

We want to allow sites to use the Gravatar images but with no privacy
implications. We will do this by providing a proxy service that is as simple to
use as Gravatar but that makes the url generated unique to every site/user
combination.

We will not attempt to duplicate any Gravatar functionality or take any of their
users - we merely proxy. To have an image served through Privatar you must set
it up on Gravatar. Quite frankly handling images is hard and we want none of it,
and even if we did Gravatar will be much better at it.

HOW IT WORKS

Each site that wishes to use Privatar must register with us so that we can
create the shared secret used to create Privatar urls. The site embeds
these in their pages, the browser request them from us. We then decode the
request and send it on to Gravatar, and then return the response to the browser.

Using the shared secret we can ensure that the url generated is unique to the
user and site - so you can't campare accounts accross sites. It also hides the
MD5 hash of the email address so you can't confirm if an account belongs to a
person.

On the server side we still use MD5 hashing - so the underlying requirements for
Privatar are the same as for Gravatar. It is also possible for a site to store
or cache the privatar url for each user so that it need no e generated each
time.




